Matching a Reference Value to Accepted Claims Set (#107)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

verifier which Reference Values and Endorsements are grouped together.

[^issue]: Content missing. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/110

[^issue]: Need to describe how to match conditional endorsements. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/80

#### Matching all reference values in a group against the Accepted Claims Set {#sec-match-all-ref-vals}

If all Reference Values in a group match entries in the Accepted Claims Set
then all Endorsements in the group are added to the Accepted Claims Set
(see {{sec-add-to-acs}}). {{sec-match-one-ref-val}} describes how one 
Reference Value is matched against the Accepted Claims Set.

If any Reference Value in a group does not match the Accepted Claims Set then 
all Endorsements in the group are silently ignored. 

Each group is processed independently of other groups. If a group fails to match
the Accepted Claims Set then this does not affect the processing of other groups.

#### Matching a Reference Value against the Accepted Claims Set {#sec-match-one-ref-val}

This section describes how a Reference Value is matched against evidence in the Accepted

> Claims Set. If any part of the processing indicates that the Reference Value does not match then the remaining steps in this section are skipped for that group.

Reviewer: Sentences are lines: yes

### Matching Evidence against Reference Values

This section describes the process performed by the Verifier to determine

> which Endoresments in the candidate CoMIDs are applicable to the Attester being

Reviewer 2: I would agree with Ned, please use RATS specific terms. Especially here, the sentence you mean I think is as follows:
`This section describes the various steps performed by the Verifier to determine which Reference Values in the candidate CoMIDs are applicable to the Attester` All applicable Reference Values are added to the Accepted Claims Set.`

> which Endoresments in the candidate CoMIDs are applicable to the Attester being

Author: The verifier is trying to work out which triples should be added to the accepted claims set. Reworded.

> which Endoresments in the candidate CoMIDs are applicable to the Attester being

Reviewer 3: I don't see updated wording. Is it stuck in a local repo possibly?

> which Endoresments in the candidate CoMIDs are applicable to the Attester being

Author: Updated text has been pushed to the main repository, now at line 1431

verified. All applicable Endorsements are added to the Accepted Claims Set.

> The verifier checks whether Endorsements are applicable by comparing Evidence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Verifier checks whether Endorsements are applicable by comparing Evidence
```

in the Accepted Claims Set against Reference Values from the CoMID. These
Reference Values may be provided as Reference Value Triples or may be combined

> with the Endorsements, for example as the Conditional Endorsement Series Triple.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with the Endorsed Values, for example as the Conditional Endorsement Series Triple.
```

> The following subsections describe how the CoRIM tells the verifier which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following subsections describe how the CoRIM conveys the Verifier which
```

> Reference Values and Endorsements are grouped together ({{sec-grouping-ref-vals}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reference Values and  Endorsed Values are grouped together ({{sec-grouping-ref-vals}})
```

> and how the verifier matches a Reference Value against the Accepted Claims Set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and how the Verifier matches a Reference Value against the Accepted Claims Set
```

({{sec-match-one-ref-val}}).

If all Reference Values in a group match the Accepted Claims Set then all

> Endorsements in the group are added to the Accepted Claims Set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Endorsed Values in the group are added to the Accepted Claims Set
```

(see {{sec-add-to-acs}}).

If any Reference Value in a group does not match then this does not affect
the processing of other groups.

> 

Reviewer 2: Here I would like to mention one statement:
`When a Reference Value mismatch occurs, its impact on overall Appraisal  depends on the Verifier Appraisal Policy used in the context of the Appraisal.`

Author: I disagree with this change. The point of CoRIM is for the Endorser (rim author) to provide a description of what they want. If the Verifier ignores the mismatch then it is not following the instructions from the Endorser.
I will find a way to say this which is hopefully acceptable.

Reviewer: Well... a CoRIM does not convey policy (only conditional-endorsements as a fringe case, I think). Therefore, there is some discrepancy here. It must be very simple and clear, though, for a Verifier to select appropriate policies or fall-back to a default behavior, I think.

Reviewer 3: Consider the Attester being a graph where each node represents a TE. Appraisal of each TE will result in an isomorphic graph containing accepted claims for each TE. Some of the nodes may have an appraisal failure result.
What is the expected behavior of the Verifier when preparing an AR? One possibility is there is an AR graph that is isomorphic to the evidence / accepted claims graphs. The concise attestation results (CAR) schema would allow each node in the graph to have an AR4SI result while the EAR schema would take the average of the graph. Presumably, the nodes containing failed appraisal results would essentially multiply the average by zero causing the whole result to be "failure"? Since the exact behavior of how Verifier produces attestation results isn't known, the verifier should maintain the integrity of the (accepted claims) graph and treat it as the input to the verifier's AR processing capability.
Possibly, it makes sense to add a section following section 5 that describes attestation results processing?

Reviewer 2: to be addressed with issue #136

#### Grouping Reference Values and Endorsements {#sec-grouping-ref-vals}

> This paragraph will be replaced by a description of how the CoRIM tells the
verifier which Reference Values and Endorsements are grouped together.

[^issue]: Content missing. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/TBD

[^issue]: Need to describe how to match conditional endorsements. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/80

#### Matching a Reference Value against the Accepted Claims Set {#sec-match-one-ref-val}

This section describes how a Reference Value is matched against the Accepted Claims
Set. If any part of the processing indicates that the Reference Value does not match
then the remaining steps in this section are not required.

A Reference Value consists of an `environment-map` plus a `measurement-map`. In the
Reference Value Triple these are packaged together. In other triples multiple

> Referenve Values are stored more compactly by letting one `environment-map`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reference Values are stored more compactly by letting one `environment-map`
```

apply to multiple `measurement-map`s.

The Verifier first looks for entries in the Accepted Claims Set with the same

> `environment-map` as the reference value. If there are no such entries then

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`environment-map` as the Reference Value. If there are no such entries then
```

the Reference Value does not match.

> A Verifier SHALL compare two `environment-map`s using a binary comparison of the CBOR

Reviewer 2: Are we sure how this comparison is mentioned here ? Are we saying we compare the CBOR Encoded objects.

My understanding was that based on a specific `attestation scheme` the Environment Structure would be populated and one would compare it matching identical elements in the reference-value-triple-record.

encoded object.

A Verifier SHOULD convert `environment-map` so it meets CBOR Core Deterministic
Encoding Requirements before performing the binary comparison.

> The Verifier SHALL iterate over the entries in the `measurement-values-map`

Author: I have changed this to lower case since it could refer to a reference value within conditional-endorsement-triple-record as well

entry within the Reference Value `measurement-map`. Each entry is compared
against the `measurement-map` from the Accepted Claims Set. If any entry
does not match then the Reference Value does not match.

The algorithm used to match the `measurement-values-map` entries
depends on whether the reference value is tagged,

> and on the `measurement-values-map` key which identifies the entry.

Reviewer 3: See issues #141 and #142

If the Reference Value `measurement-values-map` value starts with a CBOR tag
then the Verifier MUST use the algorithm associated with that tag to match
the entries.

This specification defined handling for some tags, which is described in
sub-sections below. Profiles may define algorithms describing the handling
of additional tags.

If the Verifier does not recognise the Refernce Value CBOR tag value then
the Reference Value does not match.

If the Reference Value is not tagged and the measurement-value-map key is a
special value described in the sub-sections below,
then the algorithm appropriate to that key is used to match the entries.

If the Reference Value is not tagged, and the `measurement-values-map` key
is not a special value described below, then the entries are compared
using binary comparison of their CBOR encoded values. If the values
are not binary identical then the Reference Value does not match.

> Note that while specifications may extend the matching semantics using tags,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that while specifications may extend the matching semantics using CBOR tags,
```

> there is no way to extend the matching semantics of special key values.

Reviewer 3: What makes a key value "special"?

Author: It is described in this document. Removed most mentions of special

> there is no way to extend the matching semantics of special key values.

Reviewer 2: Same comment, the statement is not clear and needs better explination

Author: I rewrote this, please check that the new text is acceptable, and propose better text if it is not

> Any new keys requiring special handling must have an appropriate tag in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Any new keys requiring special handling must have an appropriate CBOR tag in the
```

reference value.

If the Reference Value contains an `authorized-by` field then the Verifier

> SHALL check which entities authorized the Accepted Claims Set entry compared

Reviewer 2: Did you mean the same Authorized by entry is expected in the received Evidence present in the Accepted Claims Set?

Author: I rewrote this, please check that the current text is acceptable

in the steps above. If the entry was not authorized by one of the keys from
the `authorized-by` field then the Reference Value does not match.

If all checks above have been performed successfully then the Reference Value
matches.

##### Comparison for svn entries

> The value stored under `measurement-values-map` key 1 is a SVN, which is stored

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The value accepted under `measurement-values-map` key 1 is an SVN, which is accepted
```

in the Accepted Claims Set as a UINT.

If the Reference value for `measurement-values-map` key 1 is an untagged UINT or
a UINT tagged with #6.552 then an equality comparison is performed. If the value
of the SVN in Accepted Claims Set is not the same as the value in the Reference
Value then the Reference Value does not match.

If the Reference value for `measurement-values-map` key 1 is a UINT tagged with
#6.553 then a minimum comparison is performed. If the value of the SVN in
Accepted Claims Set less than the value in the Reference Value then the
Reference Value does not match.

##### Comparison for digests entries

The value stored under `measurement-values-map` key 2, or a value tagged with

> #6.TBD is a digest entry. It contains one or more digests, each measuring the

Reviewer 2: I thought we now have a code point for every entry in the `measurement-values-map` ?

Reviewer 3: Issue #139 tracks this discussion.

> #6.TBD is a digest entry. It contains one or more digests, each measuring the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#6.TBD is a digest entry. It contains multiple digests (per digest algorithm), representing measurement 
```

> #6.TBD is a digest entry. It contains one or more digests, each measuring the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#6.TBD is a digest entry. It contains one or more digests, each measuring the
```

Author: Already reworded

> same object. A Reference Value may contain multiple digests, each with a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 A Reference Value may contain multiple digests, each with a
```

Reviewer 3: The suggested change confuses me. The original seems clearer.

> different algorithm, if any of the algorithms meets the security requirements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
different algorithm, if the algorithm meets the security requirements
```

> of the Reference Value author.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of the Reference Value signer.
```
Note: There are two roles defined for corim: signer and manifest-creator. 'author' is ambiguous as to which role is appropriate. By default the rim signer is used for authority, but there may be a case for manifest-creator if it is supplied. Corim should document these roles better so that it is clear which entity is authoritatively supplying the measurements.

Author: This text was removed, but I think the entity which signed the CoRIM is irrelevant for most of the meaning of the CoRIM.

> If the CBOR structure of the digest entry in the Reference Value or the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the CBOR encoding of the digest entry in the Reference Value or the
```

Accepted Claim Set value with the same key is incorrect then the Reference
Value does not match.

> The Verifier iterates over the digests array in the reference value, locating

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Verifier iterates over the Reference Value digests array, locating
```

> algorithms which are present in the Reference Value and the Accepted Claims

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
hash algorithm identifiers that are present in the Reference Value and in the Accepted Claims
```

Reviewer: if this change is not contentious, we can add the suggestion before merging

Reviewer 3: OK with me (obviously)

Set entry.

> If there is no algorithm which is present in the Reference Value and the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If there is no hash algorithm identifier which is present in the Reference Value and the
```

Accepted Claims Set then the Reference Value does not match.

> If a hash algorithm is present in both the Reference Value and the Accepted

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a hash algorithm identifier is present in both the Reference Value and the Accepted
```

> Claims Set, but the value of the hash is not binary identical between the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Claims Set, but the value of the digests are not binary identical between the
```

> two locations then the Reference Value does not match.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Reference Value and the Accepted Claims Set, the measurement does not match.
```

##### Comparison for raw-value entries

> > I think this comparison method only works if the entry is at key 4 (because

Reviewer 3: We should consider defining it similarly to the Intel profile definition.

there needs to be a mask at key 5). Should we have a reference value of this
which stores [expect-raw-value raw-value-mask] in an array?

[^issue]: Content missing. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/71

> ##### Defining handling for new tags

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### Handling of new tags
```

A profile may specify handling for new CBOR tagged Reference Values. The

> profile must specify how to compare the tagged reference value against

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
profile must specify how to compare the tagged Reference Value against
```

the Accepted Claims Set.

> Note that the verifier may compare Reference Values in any order, so the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the Verifier may compare Reference Values in any order, so the
```

> comparison should not include any state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
comparison should not be stateful.
```

Reference Values and Endorsed Values are grouped together ({{sec-grouping-ref-vals}})
and how the verifier matches a Reference Value against the Accepted Claims Set
({{sec-match-all-ref-vals}}).

#### Grouping Reference Values and Endorsements {#sec-grouping-ref-vals}

> This paragraph will be replaced by a description of how the CoRIM tells the
verifier which Reference Values and Endorsements are grouped together.

[^issue]: Content missing. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/110

[^issue]: Need to describe how to match conditional endorsements. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/80

#### Matching all reference values in a group against the Accepted Claims Set {#sec-match-all-ref-vals}

If all Reference Values in a group match entries in the Accepted Claims Set
then all Endorsements in the group are added to the Accepted Claims Set
(see {{sec-add-to-acs}}). {{sec-match-one-ref-val}} describes how one
Reference Value is matched against the Accepted Claims Set.

If any Reference Value in a group does not match the Accepted Claims Set then

> all Endorsements in the group are silently ignored.

Reviewer 3: tracked by issue #143

Each group is processed independently of other groups. If a group fails to match

> the Accepted Claims Set then this does not affect the processing of other groups.

Reviewer 3: Tracked by issue #136

#### Matching a Reference Value against the Accepted Claims Set {#sec-match-one-ref-val}

> This section describes how a Reference Value is matched against evidence in the Accepted

Reviewer: following RFC9334: yes

> Claims Set. If any part of the processing indicates that the Reference Value does not match then the remaining steps in this section are skipped for that group.

Author: I used your suggestion

A Reference Value consists of an `environment-map` plus a `measurement-map`. In the
`reference-values-triple-record` these are packaged together. In other triples multiple
Reference Values are represented more compactly by letting one `environment-map`
apply to multiple `measurement-map`s.

The Verifier first looks for entries in the Accepted Claims Set with the same
`environment-map` as the Reference Value. If there are no such entries then
the Reference Value does not match.

A Verifier SHALL compare two `environment-map`s using a binary comparison of the CBOR
encoded object.

A Verifier SHOULD convert `environment-map` into a form which meets CBOR Core

> Deterministic Encoding Requirements before performing the binary comparison.

Reviewer 3: Should be a reference following "CBOR Core Deterministic Encoding".  e.g.: {{Section 4.2.1 of -cbor}}

The Verifier SHALL iterate over the entries in the `measurement-values-map`
entry within the reference value `measurement-map`. Each entry is compared
against the `measurement-map` from the Accepted Claims Set. If any entry
does not match then the Reference Value does not match.

The algorithm used to match the `measurement-values-map` entries
is described below. It depends on whether the reference value is tagged with a
CBOR tag {{-cbor}},
and on the `measurement-values-map` key which identifies the entry.

If the Reference Value `measurement-values-map` value starts with a CBOR tag
then the Verifier MUST use the algorithm associated with that tag to match
the entries.

This specification defines the matching algorithm for some CBOR tagged reference
values, which is described in sub-sections below.

A CoRIM profile may define additional tags and their matching algorithms.

If the Verifier does not recognize the Reference Value CBOR tag value then
the Reference Value does not match.

If the Reference Value is not tagged and the measurement-value-map key is a

> value with handling described in the sub-sections below,

Reviewer 3: Need forward references to the "sub-sections below"

then the algorithm appropriate to that key is used to match the entries.

If the Reference Value is not tagged, and the `measurement-values-map` key

> is not a value described below, then the entries are compared

Reviewer 3: need forward reference to "below"

> using binary comparison of their CBOR encoded values. If the values

Reviewer 3: "CBOR encoded" is ambiguous depending on how the parser represented the values. Possibly the focus is on the CBOR serialization (big endian)? In which case, we can just say that.

Reviewer 3: This is tracked by issue #142

are not binary identical then the Reference Value does not match.

> Note that while specifications may extend the matching semantics using CBOR tags,

Reviewer 3: 'specifications' seems nebulous. Can we say 'corim profiles'?

> there is no way to extend the matching semantics of key values.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
there is no way to extend the matching semantics of keys.
```

Reviewer: good enough

> Any new keys requiring non-default comparison must add a CBOR tag to the

Reviewer 3: Isn't it possible to add a CBOR tagged value without adding a new key? Note also that unless the CDDL describes the type as extensible ($xxx-type-choice) it isn't possible to modify the value using CBOR tagging. 
If describing extensibility of keys, the only way way to do this is to add new keys (code points). Profiles defines which keys it must understand (already). 
I'm not sure what warning or advice the "note" is conveying that isn't already understood by profiles and CDDL.

Reviewer 3: Discussion moved to issue #141.

reference value describing the desired behaviour.

> If the Reference Value contains an `authorized-by` field then the Verifier

Reviewer 3: Given all RVs are signed / authenticated, all RVs have an authorized-by context. The same is true for Evidence / ACS. All Evidence is signed / authenticated, hence has an authorized-by context. I don't think the conditional wording is needed, but rather to explain better the authorized-by context.

Reviewer 3: Tracked by issue #140

SHALL check for an `authorized-by` field in the Accepted Claims Set entry
compared in the steps above. If the Accepted Claims Set key is not one of
the keys from the reference value `authorized-by` field then the
reference value does not match.

If all checks above have been performed successfully then the Reference Value
matches.

##### Comparison for svn entries

The value stored under `measurement-values-map` key 1 is an SVN, which must
have type UINT.

If the Reference value for `measurement-values-map` key 1 is an untagged UINT or
a UINT tagged with #6.552 then an equality comparison is performed. If the value
of the SVN in Accepted Claims Set is not equal to the value in the Reference
Value then the Reference Value does not match.

If the Reference value for `measurement-values-map` key 1 is a UINT tagged with
#6.553 then a minimum comparison is performed. If the value of the SVN in
Accepted Claims Set less than the value in the Reference Value then the
Reference Value does not match.

##### Comparison for digests entries

> The value stored under `measurement-values-map` key 2, or a value tagged with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The value stored under `measurement-values-map` key 2,
or a value tagged with
```

> #6.TBD is a digest entry. It contains one or more digests, each measuring the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#6.TBD is a digest entry.
It contains one or more digests, each measuring the
```

Reviewer 3: I don't remember a decision to define a #6.TBD for `digests` value. Maybe worry about documenting it when we cross that bridge?

same object. A Reference Value may contain multiple digests, each with a
different algorithm acceptable to the Reference Value provider. If the

> digest in evidence contains a single value with an algorithm and value

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
digest in Evidence contains a single value with an algorithm and value
```

Reviewer 3: Are we constantly referring to Evidence as Accepted Claims Set? I'm confused as to when it is appropriate to use one term over the other.

matching one of the algorithms and values in the Reference Value then it
matches.

To prevent downgrade attacks, if there are multiple algorithms which are in

> both the evidence and Reference Value then the digests calculated using all

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
both the Evidence and Reference Value then the digests calculated using all
```

Reviewer: following RFC9334: yes

shared algorithms must match.

> If the CBOR structure of the digest entry in the Reference Value or the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the CBOR structure of the `digests` entry in the Reference Value or the
```

Reviewer 3: Couldn't an implementation convert the CBOR array of `digests` into a linked list or some other memory structure and loose the CBOR encoding (so long as it preserves array position and byte order)?

Accepted Claim Set value with the same key is incorrect then the Reference
Value does not match.

The Verifier MUST iterate over the reference value `digests` array, locating
algorithms which are present in the reference value and the Accepted Claims
Set entry.

> If there is no hash algorithm identifier which is present in the Reference Value

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the hash algorithm identifier which is present in the Reference Value
```

Reviewer: ah... this is associated with the next suggestion. Then yes

> and the Accepted Claims Set entry then the Reference Value does not match.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
differs from the hash algorithm identifier in the Accepted Claims Set entry then the Reference Value does not match.
```

Reviewer 3: Note: IANA registry for hash algs allows multiple encodings: numeric (0,1,2,...), stringified numeric ("0", "1", "2",...) and strings "sha-256", "sha-384" etc. Should the description here point to the IANA registry and should the Verifier perform reasonable similarity checking, e.g.: "1" equals 1 equals "sha-256"?

Additionally, profiles can define their own alg ids (so long as they don't conflict with the IANA registry).

Reviewer: yes on the suggestion (as above). @nedmsmith, maybe rescue your comment as an issue?

Reference Values and Endorsed Values are grouped together ({{sec-grouping-ref-vals}})
and how the verifier matches a Reference Value against the Accepted Claims Set
({{sec-match-all-ref-vals}}).

#### Grouping Reference Values and Endorsements {#sec-grouping-ref-vals}

> This paragraph will be replaced by a description of how the CoRIM tells the
verifier which Reference Values and Endorsements are grouped together.

[^issue]: Content missing. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/110

[^issue]: Need to describe how to match conditional endorsements. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/80

#### Matching all reference values in a group against the Accepted Claims Set {#sec-match-all-ref-vals}

If all Reference Values in a group match entries in the Accepted Claims Set
then all Endorsements in the group are added to the Accepted Claims Set
(see {{sec-add-to-acs}}). {{sec-match-one-ref-val}} describes how one
Reference Value is matched against the Accepted Claims Set.

If any Reference Value in a group does not match the Accepted Claims Set then
all Endorsements in the group are silently ignored.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[^issue]: Need to complete the processing requirements, when partial matching occurs or a complete mis-match occurs. Tracked at https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/143
```

Author: I think we should discuss that issue separately and can add text here if it is needed for the handling of the issue.

Each group is processed independently of other groups. If a group fails to match
the Accepted Claims Set then this does not affect the processing of other groups.

#### Matching a Reference Value against the Accepted Claims Set {#sec-match-one-ref-val}

This section describes how a Reference Value is matched against Evidence in the Accepted
Claims Set.
If any part of the processing indicates that the Reference Value does not match then the remaining steps in this section are skipped for that group.

> A Reference Value consists of an `environment-map` plus a `measurement-map`. In the

Author: Your statement is true, but not what I am trying to say.
When the next change goes in describing how to process conditional public key entry, it will talk about how to convert that claim into one or more reference values which are processed in sequence.

> A Reference Value consists of an `environment-map` plus a `measurement-map`. In the

Reviewer 3: I don't know what a "conditional public key entry" is. Is it defined somewhere or is this shorthand notation for `conditional-endorsement-triples` containing `identity-key-triples` or something else?

> `reference-values-triple-record` these are packaged together. In other triples multiple

Reviewer: ignoring line break nits for now

> Reference Values are represented more compactly by letting one `environment-map`

Reviewer 2: None of the statements are correct. As of CDDL in the current spec, a Reference Value triple has one `environment` and corresponding one `measurement-map` So considering this fact, I would re-word the statement as

> Reference Values are represented more compactly by letting one `environment-map`

Reviewer 3: It is reasonable to consider multiple triples having the same `environment-map` but using different triples to arrive at a set of measurements that belong to the environment. An internal representation would be described by an environment with multiple measurements.

> Reference Values are represented more compactly by letting one `environment-map`

Reviewer 2: We should not use the word `triples` then. I was confused by the statement.

I would re-phrase it then to:

Internally the Verifier can combine all the measurements belonging to the same environment together or something similar

> Reference Values are represented more compactly by letting one `environment-map`

Reviewer 3: > We should not use the word `triples` then. I was confused by the statement.
> 
> I would re-phrase it then to:
> 
> Internally the Verifier can combine all the measurements belonging to the same environment together or something similar

I agree that we should have conventions for describing the internal representation without referring to specific CDDL / encodings. The challenge is doing this without being nebulous. Possibly, a strategy is to describe the internal representation by describing the CDDL that instantiated it. e.g., "...the environment (instantiated by `environment-map`)..."

> Reference Values are represented more compactly by letting one `environment-map`

Reviewer: does this thread of comments require an issue to be raised before merging?

> Reference Values are represented more compactly by letting one `environment-map`

Reviewer 3: > does this thread of comments require an issue to be raised before merging?

No.

> apply to multiple `measurement-map`s.

Author: I don't think it makes sense if this is deleted. Maybe it is outdated.

> apply to multiple `measurement-map`s.

Reviewer 3: > I don't think it makes sense if this is deleted. Maybe it is outdated.

This is an artifact of previous suggested edits.

> Reference Values are represented more compactly by letting one `environment-map`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reference Values pertaining to an environment are represented more compactly by collecting various types of measurements in a single `measurement-map`
```

Reviewer 3: I think there are overlapping multi-line suggested changes. Can we close on this PR and manage changes using more focused issues? i.e., open an issue rather than suggest changes here.

Reviewer 2: Tracked via issue #144

The Verifier first looks for entries in the Accepted Claims Set with the same
`environment-map` as the Reference Value. If there are no such entries then
the Reference Value does not match.

A Verifier SHALL compare two `environment-map`s using a binary comparison of the CBOR
encoded objects.

A Verifier SHOULD convert `environment-map` into a form which meets CBOR Core

> Deterministic Encoding Requirements before performing the binary comparison.

Author: Is it a good idea to refer to sections in other documents? The other document might change and the reference then becomes outdated. I will link to the whole document

> Deterministic Encoding Requirements before performing the binary comparison.

Reviewer 3: > Is it a good idea to refer to sections in other documents? The other document might change and the reference then becomes outdated. I will link to the whole document

RFCs don't change. They can be updated by another RFC.

The Verifier SHALL translate each field in the TcbInfo into a field in the
created endorsed-triple-record

> - The TcbInfo `type` field SHALL be copied to the field named `environment-map / class / class-id` and tagged with tag #6.111

Reviewer 3: The TcbInfo TYPE is an OCTET STRING that can contain whatever form that `class-id` can take. I believe it supports tagged UUID and tagged int in addition to tagged OID. The Verifier reads the RV to know how to translate the Evidence OCTET STRING. This poses a problem for Verifiers that copy the Evidence into ACS without knowing the RV context. Possibly, they need a dirty bit that tells whether the schema translation has been applied?

Reviewer 3: Created issue #138
